habits don't define
who you are but they exhibit
who you are and with time
not even all that much time you become
the reflected image of your habits the
fundamental solution
for being a terrible person is not to
work on the optics
is not to try to tackle the fact that
people perceive you
as unlovable as a scumbag as garbage as
a terrible person
but to work on the fact that you uh you
actually are
a terrible person what diet and exercise
can do for you
is offer a very limited and very shallow
change in your personal appearance and
by contrast
changing who you actually are
is profound and seemingly unlimited
this is 6 am freezing my ass off
west coast of canada walking
to the gym why would i do that to myself
why would i put myself out here on the
block
my fingers and toes and nose numb in
this cold
beneath this strangely bright white
overcast sky
first thing in the morning just to go
and do
200 push-ups on my knuckles on a
rubberized floor
at a time of day when it can be
guaranteed
there will not even be one good looking
woman
at the aforementioned gym at a time when
the only people working out there
are basically endurance athlete nerds
who bring their tie
to the gym to change into their office
apparel
at about 6 45 a.m and go off to their
respectable
jobs well i go back to my apartment
with my gorgeous 25 year old friend to
do youtube
why would i do this to myself this is
the fundamental reasonable man
some of us are up at six a.m walking to
the gym
and some of us are on youtube feeling
sorry for ourselves
on a whole nother level people think the
difference between discipline and
self-discipline
is the difference between mustard
and dijon mustard and it's not
nothing could be further from the truth
what you've got to learn in this life
is to laugh at and sneer and spit on
discipline
and devalue self-discipline and this is
exactly nice of a goddess problem in
life
i see you breaking down weeping in one
video after another old man
i see that you've slid down that
slippery slope
from being a hardcore vegan
going to chiang mai thailand just to
bask in the reflected glow of
durianrider and freely
chase those youtube views to sitting
around eating
canadian mcdonald's all you can eat
mukbang
and then breaking down weeping wondering
why it is that you're fat and can't lose
weight
i just want to be normal and i'm not
adorable
the last time i talked to orly he just
told me to jump off the roof
i'm disgusting i'm so ugly look at me i
[ __ ] have this double chin i've
worked so hard
trying to lose my weight to get rid of
my double chin
given the fact that you clicked on this
video this is a situation most likely
you already know
nicado avocado is an ex-vegan
and he's been coming on youtube he's
been coming on the internet uploading
videos
weeping crying for help saying in effect
somebody fix me i'm broken but why
number one he feels unlovable
number two he actually is
unlovable number three he is aware of
points one and point two but he is not
sure of what to do about it he knows
about the problem
he does not yet know the solution
problem is not
that uh people perceive him as unlovable
whereas in fact he's a really great guy
make no mistake people perceive him as
unlovable
because he's a piece of subhuman garbage
and to make matters worse
he's at that dangerous level of
enlightenment and ignorance where he
knows enough
that he can accurately perceive himself
as subhuman garbage
also but feels powerless he knows not
what to do about this fact the
difference between discipline
and self-discipline is the difference
between
being the commander or the general in
your own army
and being the lazy piece of [ __ ] that
the army commander has to scream at
while he's doing push-ups that the other
soldiers have to roll out of bed
where other people have to pick you up
explain to you why you're motivated
we're you're like the psychological
equivalent
of a leech not sucking the blood
out of other people but sucking
something out of them that they're
probably
much more reluctant to give away than
their blood
their own sense of will and direction
other people have
exactly what you lack even
in accomplishing the things you do want
to accomplish yourself
let alone those things that you lack
the foresight or vision to realize you
ought to want to accomplish
you see this [ __ ] grocery store isn't
even open yet
this doesn't just apply to doing
push-ups in the gym of course
people who lack self-discipline those
are going to be the people who pay
to go to a language school not to have a
teacher explain the language to them not
to have the teacher
provide them with the tools they need to
learn the language
but precisely for the school to provide
them with
deadlines expectation peer pressure even
basically these are people
who lack the ability to direct and
motivate and govern themselves
and spend their whole lives trying to
sell themselves into a kind of slavery
whether that's with a boyfriend or a
girlfriend who comes into a higher
standard
whether that's with a university
professor language teacher
maybe they have a trainer at the gym
maybe they have someone they look up to
who can hold them that higher standard
but uh
these are people who are going to spend
their whole lives
looking around outside themselves for
something the rest of us
are going to find within it should be
obvious to all of you by now that we are
discussing a problem that cannot be
solved
through diet and exercise as much as i
might love to pretend
to solve this problem by selling you a
copy of my ebook for 17.99
so that you also can learn how to do 200
push-ups a day
on your knuckles by supposedly following
uh black and white diagrams
and uh getting a few paragraphs of
meaningless
pep talk in bold italic text
interspersed with anecdotes about my
unbelievably awesome life that's
actually not the way to go
in this specific scenario again the
fundamental solution
for uh being a terrible person is not to
work on the optics
is not to try to tackle the fact that
people perceive you
as unlovable as a scumbag as garbage as
a terrible person
but to work on the fact that you uh you
actually are
a terrible person so those of you who
follow me on twitter will notice i said
this a couple times in the last
few days what uh diet and exercise can
do for you
is offer a very limited and very shallow
change in your personal appearance and
by contrast
changing who you actually are
is profound and seemingly unlimited
so in talking about discipline and
self-discipline
it's much the same whether we're talking
about
something intangible and ethical and
philosophical
like veganism or something entirely
tangible like
doing 200 push-ups a day it's
not the same thing if you only become
vegan because your boyfriend
or your girlfriend already was vegan and
forces you to be vegan against your will
and in accordance with their will that's
their self-discipline that's them
dominating you
now there is a further wrinkle to this
because uh nicocado is currently living
under the delusion
that he eats food for a living that what
he's paid to do
is come on camera and eat unhealthy food
like mcdonald's
arby's whatever taco bell i don't know
uh that people pay to watch and eat food
and you're wrong nick your job what
you're paid to do
is to come on the internet and talk
about your feelings
you don't do a cooking show man nobody
nobody really
can possibly be so ignorant that they
don't know what a
miserable fat dude eating a mcdonald's
hamburger looks like most of us see that
every day
that's that's not what the show is man
the show ultimately is
you in life also i'm not going to
oversell you on this concept
i'm not going to say that veganism is
all things to all people
or is the solution to all your problems
but uh the question of whether or not
you should
be vegan become vegan again ultimately
doesn't have to do with the food
doesn't have to do with the animals
doesn't have to do with ecology it
doesn't even have to do with
your health it has to do with you it has
to do with what kind of human being do
you want to be
you showing a sense of responsibility
um who you are the person you want to
become
that you don't just want to be a uh
you don't just want to be a mindless
consumer you want to at the bare minimum
be a mindful consumer that's that's not
a lot to ask nick
that's not uh that's not a character
test
that would be uh demanding too much it
doesn't really matter
whether you think of this optimistically
or pessimistically
but on the level of practical philosophy
the good news is you can change
who you are you can be in your own eyes
a good person rather than a contemptible
piece of garbage
but the way to do that is by changing
who you are
but fundamentally becoming a good person
not raising your self-esteem not making
yourself appear to be
a good person in the eyes of others but
making a change that starts with what
for some people
is a crushing and demoralizing
realization of uh
just who it is they are right now just
what it is that needs to be changed
just all of the assumptions
and excuses in your life that have to be
discarded
and you know some people are broken by
that some people
never come back nick you're the kind of
guy where um
if you weren't vegan i'd have no reason
to even know you exist
i would just have no reason to care and
there are people i've known for years
who went from vegan to ex-vegan
you know one that really struck me
recently was american unicorn
if you guys search for american unicorn
on this channel you're going to find a
real funny amusing interview
to me and her she's certainly at the
opposite extreme from garlic nicotto
she's obsessed with weightlifting and
pushing her body to its natural limits
highly disciplined
sort of character and now also a
creative artist
she also has a background in baking
a lot of common ground there guess what
the minute she went back to eating meat
it's like why am i why am i talking to
you again and it isn't even the minute
it happened
it's the minute i found out it happened
and you know
habits don't define who you are
but they exhibit who you are and with
time
not even all that much time you become
the reflected image of your habits
and that happens relatively quickly with
the habit of going to the gym
with diet and exercise
but it happens instantaneously
with the habits of the mind so yeah nick
you can change you can be a different
person
you can be a better person you can be a
good person
question we all got asked now is uh will
you
ah ba le ciel